---
layout: post
title: Conceptual undestanding of JavaScript
---

I think that a conceptual understanding of the main feaures of a programming language is the better way to learn it than depending on trials-and-errors being repeated until it works somehow. That being said, I decided to write about JavaScript, particularly its inherent concepts worth revisiting from time to time.


### Whitespace
1. Whitespace can be used when formatting characters or comments.
2. Whitespace means one of the following cases.
 - space
 - tab
 - line end
 - // comments
 - /* comments */ (not recommended. regular expressions)

### Objects
1. The primitive types of JavaScript are numbers, strings, booleans, null and undefined. All other values are objects.

2. Numbers, strings, and booleans are object-like in that they have methods, but they are immutable.

3. Objects in JavaScript are mutable keyed collections.

4. In JavaScript objects, a property name can be any string, including the empty string.

5. A property value can be any JavaScript value except for *undefined*.

6. There is no constraint on the names of new properties or on the values of properties.

7. JavaScript's prototype feature can reduce object initialization time and memory consumption.

### Functions

1. Functions in JavaScript are objects.

2. Object literals are linked to Object.prototype

3. Function objects are linked to Function.prototype

4. Every function has two additional properties: context and the implementing code.


